# Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

This repo contains a script to read a data set generated by Samsung mobile phones sensors collected from several subjects performing a certain type of activties while attaching the phone to their waste. activities perfomed are walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing, laying.

The data folder is assumed to be in the users directory, mainly it is composed of training set and test set. The purpose of the run_analysis() script is to read the data, clean it and generate some useful insights about each user activity.

#### The data cleaning in run_analysis.R is broke down to several steps
- step 1: reading a data set that represents the particpating subject of each experiment, there are two data sets: train and test, they get merged into one.
- step 2: reading the activity data set, this is where each experiment done is labeled by the activity performed (walking upstairs, standing, sitting .. etc), we also merge the training and test data sets. Each activity is given a descriptive name using the activity_labels.txt file in the data folder.
- step 3: reading the features files: for each expirement, there are several measured metrics read from the mobile accelerometer and gyroscope, those are called "features", every expirement has it own values for each of the measured features.
- step 4: merging the data from steps 1,2,3 into one data set.
- step 5: extracting features that only include mean() and std() from the data set generated from step 4.
- step 6: for every subject doing an certain activity, we take the mean of every measurement and generate a tidy data set.

### Running the script
You can download the data from [here]
set your working directory ```setwd()``` to the data root folder, source ```run_anaysis.R``` and call ```run_analysis()```, the return value should be the tidy data set described in step 6.

note: make sure that you have installed the ```dplyr``` R package as it is used by the script to manipulate data.
   [here]: <https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip>



